Welcome back.
How was it?
Did you get it?
Was it a tough question?
Don't get too disappointed if you weren't able to get the answer.
These questions are meant to be tough to stretch your mind.
If there were too simple, then you wouldn't be learning anything.
Let's start off with the naive approach.
That is the approach that first comes to mind.
For me, the very first one is going to be a nested for loop.
Let's have a function.
I'm going to call it first.
Recurring character.
It's going to receive an input.
And because we've already talked about it, I'm not going to do any input validation.
We can just assume that we're always going to get some sort of a numbered array.
In here, I'm going to loop again.
And oh, boy, I've done this so many times by now.
I hope you're getting sick and tired of just looping through arrays.
But hey, now, at least we we are masters of loops.
I plus.
Plus.
So in here, in the first loop, we're going to grab the first item in the array and let's just call
this function so we have it here nice and easy.
And gives us a nice visual.
So I'm going to loop through the first item, then the fifth or the second.
The third.
The fourth.
And keeps going.
Keeps going.
I want to grab this item and then do another loop and check to versus five to versus one, two versus
two and then say, Oh, that's the one.
If it doesn't find anything, it's going to go to the next five and then compare 5 to 1, 1 to 2, 2
to 3 and so on.
So once again, I'm just going to copy and paste this time because we have done a lot of four loops.
And simply change the variable to be J.
We're going to start at one because we don't want to compare 2 to 2.
We want to compare 2 to 5.
To start off.
So we're just skipping a loop which will help us out.
I'm going to say J here and J plus.
Plus.
Now, some of you may have been caught.
Here because if we have it the way it is right now and you console.log this loop, you'll see that it
won't work properly because every time this shifts, the outer for loop shifts from, let's say zero
to next one.
The one index j is going to be reset to one.
So five is going to get compared to five and the function is going to assume five is the reoccurring
character.
So a little trick here is to do a plus one.
That is, we always go one to the right of where is the first indexes.
So if we're looping, looping and we're at here, the sub loop, the nested loop is going to look at
a plus one.
So it's going to compare 2 to 3, 2 to 5, two to I because well, we've already compared 2 to 2, 5
to 1, 5 to 2, 1 to 2 in previous loops.
All right, we've done that in here.
We can simply do an if statement saying input.
EI does that equal input J.
Does two equals to five does two equal to one?
Does two equal to two?
Oh.
If that equals, then just simply return input.
Otherwise, if we do all this work and nothing happens, we can just return.
Undefined.
Let's see if that works.
I'm going to run it.
And I get two.
Awesome.
What if I change this to one?
If I run this, I get one.
Perfect.
What if I do just a single item in an array?
I get undefined.
If I do an empty array, I get undefined.
That's good.
What if I do one, one or one one?
I guess one that's great if I do one to.
I get undefined.
Awesome.
This looks to be working.
Nice and simple, but as you can see here, we're not being very efficient.
We have nested loops which should trigger.
Oh, this is O of NW squared.
And although technically we're actually always looping a little bit more efficient because of AI plus
AI, we're not looping twice over the entire array.
In the end, when you remove the constants and simplify things, it's still going to be o of rn squared.
So how can we solve this using hash tables?
Well, let's create a new.
Function.
We'll call this function by the same name this time.
Number two, version two.
It's going to receive an input.
And let's change our test case to have the same thing.
Like we did previously.
What can we do here?
Well, let's use a.
Hash table.
Or an object to do something interesting that is to add these all these as we iterate one by one.
So loop through all the items, add them to a hash table.
And while we're doing that, we can check to see if the property already exists or the key already exists.
We add two to the hash table, then five to the hash table, then one to the hash table.
And when we try to add two, we can trigger a warning saying, hmm, we already have two as a key.
So using that logic, let's see how we can implement it.
I'm going to create a map.
We'll just call it a hash map for now, because the keys are going to be unique.
It's not going to let any duplicate keys.
And we can simply do our loops.
And in this loop, all we're going to do is say if.
Map.
And we can check in this map if it's empty.
Now the first check in here, I want to say if the property or if the key already exists, I want to
just return the item.
Because we don't need to do any more work as soon as we find a key that already exists in our hash table.
Stop all the looping and just return.
In this case, we want to return to.
So to index zero one, two, three.
It's going to return and say two because well, this key already exists.
So the way we do that in the if check is to simply say if input.
I.
Because remember, this is going to equal to two when we look through it.
If that exists, then return.
Otherwise we will just add it to our map.
So input I.
Is going to equal.
And the value can be anything.
We'll just leave it at AI, which is the index.
So two is going to equal zero.
Five is going to equal one.
One is going to have to.
Let's just console.log here to see what is happening.
But I want to also return undefined at the end in case none of this happens, in case there is no match.
So at the end of the four loop, we'll just console log nap.
And see what we have.
I'm going to run.
And I get five, huh?
And there's no log.
What just happened here?
Well, if we console, log up here instead and take a look at what this is giving us.
And run, I get undefined, undefined, undefined zero undefined one.
What does that mean?
Well, remember, we're looping through here and we're saying, Hey, does.
To exist does input zero, which is to exist as a key.
So it's simply saying map dot two.
Does it exist?
And because that doesn't exist, we get undefined.
And it's going to go to next.
Hey, does five exist?
No, it doesn't.
Hey, does one exist?
Hey, does two exist?
And as soon as it checks to again.
Map.
To.
It's going to say, Ah, I already have it.
It's at index of zero.
So this is working.
However, because.
When this gets to zero, the way JavaScript works it.
Puts zero here, but in an if statement, zero is what we call falsely in JavaScript, and that has
to do with type caution in JavaScript, something that a lot of people get annoyed about with the language.
So what we would need to do is to make sure that we, we specify that we want this to not equal on define.
So as soon as it doesn't equal undefined, I want you to return this item.
Now, if we run this, we get to.
Which is great.
If we console dot log the map and run this and.
Let's add it at the bottom here.
So we see the actual iteration that's happening.
We see that it adds to an index of zero, then to an index of zero and five, index of one.
So on and so forth.
Until it stops after the third loop because it encounters two again, it's going to check and say oh
two already exists, just return it.
How cool is that?
We just made this entire thing with just one loop.
That is way faster than our first version using hash tables.
How cool is that for me?
Doing things like this and seeing the power of how learning about big O and hash tables has improved.
Our coding ability just gets me really, really excited and I hope this gets you excited as well.
We made this function have a time complexity of oh, then we've improved it with one downside.
We've increased the memory, the space complexity by O of n because we're creating a new object in this
function that needs to keep track of all the items in the array.
And in the worst case, when there is no match, it's going to go through the entire item list of the
array and hold that information in the map.
So we're also going to have like this version where we didn't create any space complexity.
We just had space complexity of of one.
We now have a little bit more, but in turn, we have a faster function.
Very, very cool.
Now to finish off, I want to give you one last challenge.
You see, looking at these two implementations, what happens if we have something like.
This.
What do you think the first recurring character is?
If I run this.
I get five?
Because.
Well, five.
Occurs sooner than two to because of the way we implemented the second function.
However, if I go to the first version of our function and run this, I get to.
Hmm.
Why is that?
Well, if we go to the very first part of our function, we see that the way we are doing things is
we are going one by one in a different way.
We're saying grap two and then compare it to with five, then five, then two, then three, then five,
then one and two, four, and then move over to five, then five and five and two and so on and so forth.
And because of the way we have that implemented, it's going to detect two and two because the outer
loop has an index of zero and has.
Two as it's going through the loop.
Before it compares five with five versus our second version with a hash table where we had all these
items and we were able to compare them once we grabbed all of them.
And that's another powerful thing when you think about arrays and hash tables and how you're able to
compare things.
And based on what the interviewer asked, you might have a wrong answer.
Maybe they want you to detect five and five before you detect two and two.
So my bonus question to you, if you have time and a bit of a challenge is to convert this function
if you want.
Into something that matches the answer to this, that is to detect five and five.
How would you go about doing that?
You're most likely going to have to do something interesting here.
So good luck with that.
Talk to other people on discord in our community and see if you can figure it out.
And I'll post some creative solutions to that problem as students, submit them to see how other people
have implemented this.
But for now, I think we deserve a break.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.